# Demiourgos

This work proposes an evolutionary model and a simulation tool applied to the study of camouflage evolution on virtual organism in the presence of their predators according to Darwin's Theory of Evolution. The model includes a manager, the environment, preys, predators, resources for preys, resources for predators and shared resources. Each element of the model has a set of individual attributes and behaviors specified with the help of specialists. They define how the elements of the model interact with each. Two specific applications have been proposed: (a) a particular case inspired by John A. Endler's research on guppies (\textit{Poecilia reticulata}), a species of aquarium fish. In this application, the predators feed on guppies and the guppies consume other available food resource in order to survive. The camouflage
evolves on guppies in order to avoid predation; and (b) a fictitious scenario that simulates an environment with terrestrial preys and predators. Preys represent at the same time a generic herbivorous species and a food resource for predators. In addition, there are lakes that represent shared resources for both species. A computational software was developed based on the proposed model in order to validate it. Results show that the proposed model provides satisfactory performance compared to its biological counterpart. Although the evolution of the camouflage has been the original inspiration for this first version of the proposed model, any other attribute may be studied and added to the simulation tool. This allows for the observation of its evolution in a shorter period of time than a real biological experiment would take. The simulation tool may also be used by researchers who study complex interactions between preys and predators for decision-making in species conservation issues. As a fringe benefit, it also presents a didactic aspect and may be used to demonstrate the principles of Darwin's theory.

